---
layout: post
title: Notes on writing a good GitHub README
---
## Guideline:
Design the structure from user's point of view. Make the structure clear. Be concise in each section. 

<br>
## Structure

#### High-level description
What does it do, what's the input, what's the output.

#### Content (optional)
If the README is too long, include a content section so that the user can jump around the README quickly.

#### Prerequisites/Installation
* Hyperlinks to pre-requisites (websites)
* Hyperlinks to a separate README about installation procedures.

#### Example
The first thing a new user will look for is an example.

* Always include some examples **code and data** so that people can run out of box and get a sense of how to use your software
* In README, include a 'Quick Run' or similar section to help the user run these example codes.

#### Highlight the steps to prepare for running
Keep each step concise. If a step is too long, hyper-link it to a separate README.



#### Introduce interface with parsers
Use parsers in your software to deal with input options so that you can reuse them (therefore save space) when introducing the interface.

For example:

```
python ec2run.py -h

positional arguments:
  mode                  Running model (GPU/CPU)
  connection            connection type (VPN/S3)
  
optional arguments:
  -h, --help            				show this help message and exit
  -a AMI, --ami AMI     				Target AMI (default ami-864d84ee for CPU mode, ami-763a311e for GPU mode).
  -s SUBNET, --subnet SUBNET    		VPN (?) subnet.
  -i ITYPE, --itype ITYPE   			Instance type (default r3.xlarge).
  -k KEYNAME, --keyname KEYNAME			Keyname (default starcluster; credential file overrides this).
  -r REGION, --region REGION 			EC2 region (default us-east-1).
  -p PRICE, --price PRICE 				Spot bid price (default 0.34).
  -u USER, --user USER  				User (default is $USER).
  -e EMAIL, --email EMAIL				Email address to send and get notification
  -n SPLITSIZE, --splitsize SPLITSIZE	Number of commands per instance (default 1).
  -b BUCKET, --bucket BUCKET 			The S3 bucket for data transfer (for S3 mode only)
  -ru RUNNAME, --runname RUNNAME		The S3 runname for data transfer (for S3 mode only)
  -v VOLSIZE, --volumesize VOLSIZE		The size (in GB) of hard disck (/scratch) added to each EC2 instance (default 500)

```
#### Usage
A more systematic introduction of the usage than the 'example' section which contains out-of-box running cases with no flexibility.

#### License
To make it more legit.

#### Paper citation
If there is any.

<br>
## Good practices
#### Cut down unnecessary options
Too many options can be intimidating.
#### Hyperlink
To make the README concise, use hyperlink whenever you can, especially for:

* Referring to a [file]() in the repo
* Giving [examples]()
* Prerequisites (link to the software's website so that you don't need to explain)

#### Bulletin points
Whenever and whatever you are enumerating, use bulletin points instead of a complex sentence.

#### Code block
* Avoid having any line that is extremely long. Use '\' to split long bash command into shorter ones lines for example.
* If the block is for demonstrating the usage of a docker, remember to include `docker pull` so that the user always use the latest distribution 

#### Font size
'##' for section header and '####' for subsection header seems to be good enough.


